and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business Grace show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out our weekly email where
I'm sharing actionable website and
marketing tips useful podcasts free
goodies resources and more each and
every Monday let's kick off your week
with that bye why not give it a shot
over at businessgrowth dot email
join me today we've got Nigel Thomas
Nigel CEO over Alpha inbound Nigel a
warm welcome sir how's it going it's not
too bad and it's great because we're
really zoomed in on my face here I'm
actually in a wee work to paint the
picture I'm in one of the phone booths
if anyone's ever been to a weework
before and so I can't change the angle
of this bike but it's nice to see a
close-up
start using some new moisturizer but
look it's a pleasure yeah I feel that
yeah yeah
good good to have you mate glad to have
you here um and then for anyone tuning
in on audio only basically the the tool
we use stream yard to record this video
and audio podcasts they pull your face
right in when we go on dual screen so we
we all feel that feel the lovely
benefits of that so Nigel today we're
going to be chatting all things cold
email and how everyone tuning in can get
up to 80 open rates which sounds insane
in itself with cold email so first of
all 80 to me that sounds mental Nigel is
that even possible yeah it is and you
know what's interesting before I started
this agency 12 months ago or we
rebranded it from scratch it pretty much
built a new business
people told me that cold email was dead
son people told me that it doesn't work
anymore now not only did we get it to
work we've been signing seven
multi-seven and eight figure direct to
Consumer brands from cold email like
completely cold and then getting them on
a call and taken through a sales process
so my response to anyone who thinks a
cold email doesn't work anymore we can
get them to the eight percent open rates
in a second is there's four billion
people out there who use email now in
today's world if you can't get the
attention out of one person of four
billion
you should probably think about giving
up now okay that's an insane amount and
sure the filters are getting more
powerful sure people's inboxes are
getting busier but four billion people
like every single Market you know
everyone in business uses email now in
terms of getting 80 percent that's
obviously more nuance and it's just like
if everything else you have to put in
the work you have to meet the things
personalized and there's a great saying
which is people don't know or people
don't care rather how much you know
until they know how much you care and
the point is is if you actually do the
due diligence sure you need the
infrastructure which I don't know how
you want to split this down because I've
got six different points around yeah
we'll we'll get into that in a sec for
sure I definitely want to dive into your
strategy
um but really I just wanted to put some
pressure on you from the start as I love
to do with my guests and uh just just
quiz you on the numbers I'm sure our
listeners are and I'll watch as a keen
to to find out so that's that's a fair
start so as you said did you say it's 4
billion
four billion people that use email in
the world yeah yeah so that that that in
itself shows that there's a big target
market but with that said like you
mentioned and you hinted at Nigel I get
and I'm sure you're the same I'm sure
many people are the same get tons of
emails probably I don't know 100 plus
spammy ones a day now just because I'm
co-owner of a business and naturally
you're probably in the same boat but
whether it's someone trying to sell me
my own services website and SEO whether
it's someone trying to sell me cold
calling maybe someone tell me Legion
maybe someone's selling me data lists
you name it I get it and I'm almost
auto-tuned to ignore these 99 of the
time so how are you
how are we making sure we actually stand
out in the inbox because like a lot of
emails they're just junk right
yes so here's the thing
all those emails that you're talking
about they're pretty much let's be
honest they're all the same aren't they
they're just a block of black and
similar yeah they're just a block of
black and white texts usually someone
asking you for a call or your time so
here's immediately one thing you can do
which will make you stand out massively
put an image in there you can put it in
there again contrary to popular belief
it doesn't actually affect
deliverability lend list is an Outreach
tool which is amazing for for cold
Outreach and they've done a lot of
studies on deliverability using images
and email and it actually doesn't affect
the deliverability if you set it up
correctly so that's one thing now having
an image is okay some people do that
again you're probably going to be in the
top 10 then now you can make a
personalized image so for example some
of the emails I'll send out and this is
I've seen more people using this
strategy now so I don't think it's quite
as unique as it was maybe a year or so
ago but what you can do is you can get
for example a Starbucks mug I can hold
that up to the screen and on that
Starbucks mug I can then transition in
the first name so I can literally have
your first name across the Starbucks mug
and it will say Hi Sam something along
those lines then obviously my note in
the email could be something to do with
you know something obviously related to
your subject which you can get onto in a
second but then do you want to grab a
quickie coffee
but here's the thing now you're in
probably the top one percent because no
one else in the inbox is showing up like
that and the reason why as well is
obviously doing my market research I
know that is because just like yourself
Sam I get pitched all the time in cold
email and no one puts any effort into
the cold emails that they send out to me
hardly any I've had one or two and
usually I'll send a response but the
point is is if you do that due diligence
if you actually put the time in then
most people like will respond let's say
most people will respond you still need
to do follow-ups but the point I'm
trying to make here is just because
people are busy it doesn't mean they've
lost their personality or the fact that
they're human still
yeah yeah yeah so let's let's flip this
let me play Devil's Advocate okay so
you've you've mentioned kind of
personalizing email adding imagery
tailoring it with people's names on on
Starbucks image um pictures and all that
good stuff so let's uh let's mix up I
mean that that's all good and well yeah
I know a lot of people because people
moan on LinkedIn as they like to do
every day
um hey and then in inverted commas cold
Outreach
um so is it not more a lot more
effective to attract people to you Nigel
with inbound marketing or whether that's
kind of using advertisement whether
that's organic whether that's social is
it not better to attract people directly
to you should we really be doing cold
Outreach whether it's email or cold
calling anymore yes so I've got a really
interest it's actually interesting
because I suppose I actually did a
podcast
um with an amazing founder and she's
built her business and she's like a
director consumer brand you know the
point is is that at the start to build
her business to develop relationships
with wholesalers she was dming people
all the time to get the content creators
on board she was called dming people all
the time and you wouldn't see that when
you look at the brand but the reason why
it's so important and this actually kind
of really I say it annoys me but it
frustrates me somewhat because I don't
think people are honest is that at the
start when you reboot strap business and
you're a startup you need cash
like let's just be frank Here Yeah in
our marketing and content is a fantastic
idea and I'm trying to do that more and
more but it's a long-term game if you
actually think that you start posting
today and you're just going to get
inbound leads like that especially if
you're working with multi-7 make figure
Brands then I'm just gonna break it down
for you now unless you've got a massive
presence or you've got some big
connections ain't gonna happen so today
you need cash flow to be able to survive
so you can hire contractors to actually
get a good service for your product and
then once you start building that
reputation in the background you need to
be building building up your content and
then ideally you can transition over and
I know because that's what I did so in
my belief you need to ask because the
world owes you nothing and at the start
no one will care about you so you need
to get in the door you need to generate
some cash flow and then smartly reinvest
it into those inbound and those content
methods so we can obviously start
educating your Market the last thing
I'll say on this Sam sure is for people
who challenge me on that opinion or
challenge that that thought process
remember this three percent of the
market is always ready to buy so when
you're doing called outbounds you're
going for the three percent and I
understand that now when you're doing
content obviously now you've got the
rest of the market to go to so you've
got a much bigger audience that you're
now nurturing before they get to that
three percent stage so obviously it's
going to be way harder and you'd be
silly not to start looking at the rest
of the market but like I said at the
start on what a lot of content marketers
I think they seem to forget looking back
is that you need to get the cash flow so
go for the three percent to get your
cash going and then smartly transition
into the rest of the market nurturing
that audience through like you said
content strategies
I couldn't agree with that more
um especially considering kind of most
of the companies I've been in are
bootstrapped and like some of the fluff
you might hear on social media that
might come from businesses that have had
a ton of funding
fair enough or maybe they're an employee
of a business that's doing quite well
again fair enough but when you start
when you start a business yourself like
you say you need cash flow and if you've
got limited funds in the bank then
outbound is sometimes a great way to do
that in my case I've talked about on the
show in the past
a few years ago when we were early
stages of the company I called called
set appointments generated some Revenue
eventually for got some clients on board
and then once we had the revenue wrapped
up our team then we scaled up our SEO
scaled up website scaled up paid ads
rammed up Social Etc so yeah healthy mix
is always the answer but like you say in
realistic terms you've got to get
clients on board to pay the bills and
you can ramp up the other things exactly
and going through that process what a
lot of people don't realize who haven't
gone through it is it builds you as a
person because the thing is no matter
which way you look at it no matter how
good even if you get 80 open rates
you're still going to get rejected a lot
and like you said when you did cold
calling I'm sure you build a lot of you
know resilience through that and as
entrepreneurs we need that resilience
and if you don't have that you're going
to have real issues further down the
line because you're gonna you're gonna
get struck by something and doing going
through the the cold outbound approach
really builds you up as a person I know
because I was that person I was in the
corporate world for 26 years old I came
out of that went and started a marketing
agency thinking it was going to be way
easier than it was and then I started
doing cold outbounds and I got punched
in the face every single day and it
built me as a person but the fact I
didn't give up I learned so much through
that and now I can use that experience
when I'm for example coaching my team
through hard times when I'm for example
maybe I Look to go and get investment
now you can use these experiences for
other things and actually what's funny
is when you do content when you do you
know a podcast for example like now
you've got something to talk about and
you've got more confidence about you
because you went through that so again
that's just another added benefit which
I think a lot of people miss
yeah yeah it definitely helps for sure
so yeah we've set set the groundwork so
let's let's jump into it Nigel let's not
beat around the bush we want to talk
about this this framework that you've
got in place what is the the first thing
to consider when it comes to setting up
a cold email campaign what is one of the
first things that businesses should
consider so we got six different steps
on we've got infrastructure the ICP the
ideal client profile the psychology
behind it having some fun and that's
kind of what I like to throw in the more
platform follow-up and then the systems
to make sure that it's you know
everything's kind of working and you can
systemize this when you get business so
let's go to infrastructure for first
even if you have the best copy the best
content all these sexy images whatever
if you don't have the infrastructure in
place you're never going to get into the
inbox if you never get into the inbox no
one's ever going to read your email so
in 2022 and Beyond you need to be
leveraging technology now one of the
tools that we've used but there's lots
of options out there so I'd recommend
people doing their own research
so have you heard alumnus before
I have yeah I'm do not claim to be a
cold email expert or email marketing
expert by any means but yeah certainly
heard of it I think I've seen the CEO
stuff on LinkedIn yeah yeah he's he's a
smart guy anyway so landless have got
this tool called lemon and what lemwarm
does is essentially warms up your emails
for you now they've basically got an
ecosystem and they've got some really
reputable domains there without going
too technical essentially if you send
out and obviously that should say it's
for Gmail if you send out emails or the
technology does it for you to reputable
domains it basically builds you what
positive points and for example again
just to throw it out there if you get
marked as spam you'll get negative
points that's kind of how it works so no
one wants their main domain to go down
right exactly your website yeah I was
going to get to that in a second you
should be doing that on a sub domain so
for example when we do in our cold email
our reach we have seven different sub
domains which are completely so the main
domain because as you rightly pointed
out if you get blacklisted which even if
you set a friend up correctly you don't
know what's going to happen so don't
take that risk you won't be able to now
email your clients anymore what's going
to be a real issue definitely so yeah
basically lemon will warm up your email
inbox for you
and after about two months you'll be
warmed up you can check on a tool called
it's MX toolbox like how well you're set
up and it'll give you some scoring and
all that kind of good stuff but
essentially that will get the
infrastructure to a point as long as
you're on the subdomain as well that you
can actually get inside the inbox so
that's step one and then to actually
start sending out the emails personally
for me yeah sure you might want to send
some on Gmail but I would recommend
using technology because when you're
tracking all the follow-ups and the
statistics again considering the price
is like 50 or something or whatever it
is it's not to do that and you know life
sort of business as you well know Sam's
all about leverage so invest in a piece
of technology which is going to help you
out otherwise you're just going to lose
track of things and it's become going to
become a hot mess real quick so that's
the infrastructure side of things to
actually give you the best chance to get
inside someone's inbox so there's no
documentation I mean I can go get more
technical but I think people should do
their own research if some of the things
that I said now sound foreign to you it
means there's a lot of opportunity there
to get much better open rates yeah yeah
and in terms of the those pieces of
software or software that does a similar
job in terms of actually warming up your
domain name picking a subdomain and then
a piece of software to actually send out
the emails does that typically involve
much of an investment
no so you can for you can do it for free
with G there's a tool called gmas and
that literally does it for free it's not
quite as pretty in terms of the
interface yes I would like to I would
recommend using lemon list and that's
the one that we've used most and
obviously lemon's part of the lemonless
subscription but yeah if you want to use
G Mass that's a cheaper option that's
free of charge I mean if you really
wanted to you could actually send the
emails out yourself to friends every
single day but you'd have to get them to
respond so again thinking about how long
that would take yeah you might as well
make the investment and if you're
serious about your business I think 50 a
month for a piece of software that can
if you you know bear in mind the
lifetime value of one of your clients
especially you're a service based
business then that's well worth the
investment so in my opinion it's it's a
good idea and I'd recommend doing it
gotcha okay so let's pretend we've we've
got this set up maybe we've invested a
few dollars a month or whatever may be
into into this software what what's the
next step Nigel yeah so understanding
your ICP your ideal client profile I
know you said something before we
started you also like to talk about
sales now and you'll know how critical
this is to really understand your Market
to make sure that when you're speaking
to someone whether it's called email
whether it's on call whatever yeah you
understand the language of the market
and that's so critical because when if
you look at the emails that get sent to
you you'll quite quickly understand that
most people actually don't really
understand the lingo when the language
that you speak for example in e-commerce
we use acronyms for example LTV which is
lifetime value aov which stands for
average order value you know first
owners who run these businesses they use
those acronyms every single day now the
thing thing is is if you start using
those acronyms when you speak to these
people or just the language that they
use
subconsciously and this is just how
humans work with social animals you will
essentially build more trust with them
and it might seem like a simple thing to
do but trust me when I tell you it goes
a really long way and especially when
you actually get these people on a call
it's suddenly worth the investment of
time and putting in that research now
how can you actually find out about the
language and all that good stuff well
actually the best way to do it is really
to speak to people on calls and that
obviously might require some sort of
cold outbound so it's a bit of a you
know chicken or the egg situation but if
you already have customers then
definitely speak to them if you don't
have customers you can basically just
try and interview some people and try
and give them something of value but
obviously not try and sell them on
anything just literally try and get on
the phone even if it's some people who
were at the start of their Journey for
example if it's an e-commerce brand like
we work with maybe just the founder
who's getting started you'd be surprised
that a lot of people are willing to have
a quick chat and you're quite quickly
realize one what they speak about and
what they think about and two where they
hang out and that's really important so
then you can find more of these people
so if you can get on a call and have a
conversation ask some questions actually
that's probably one of the best things
for outreach as strange as it might
sound because that's what you're trying
to do with the Outreach don't know what
your thoughts are on that song
I think it's good
um I think it's always useful like we've
talked about in many episodes to know
who your ideal client profile is like
what sectors they're in and what job
titles they are the marketing directors
CMOS
different types of exact sales directors
whatever and like you say getting the
right language and making sure that
you're not using a ton of jargon that
they never use so when you put it into
your emails or your communication of any
form it just confuses them and they
ignore you or um don't want to respond
but like you say if you can actually use
their day-to-day learning what things
they actually say in a normal
conversation and like you say you can
make sure what you're actually putting
out there is going to resonate yeah
exactly and the other thing is pain
points like that's obviously the big one
you need to understand their pain points
again for our industry using the example
iOS 14 and advertising is one of the big
pain points in the industry if you know
for any director consumer brand that was
making considerable art money has been
affected by it tracking an attribution
you know these are huge pain points in
the industry and I know that because I'm
on calls the founders every single day
you need to know the pain points of your
Market what keeps these people up at
night and if you you can address that in
your email and you can write that kind
of problem solution with the other
things that we're going to talk about
you're going to be again you're going to
be massively ahead because I don't know
what keeps you up at night Sam but I'm
hazarding a guess a lot of the emails in
your inbox don't talk about it
that's one of the most important things
right and I think like you say a lot of
um people in marketing a lot of sales as
well
don't realize that it's not that
difficult to understand if you can nail
down probably the top three problems
that your ideal client faces then you're
way ahead of most companies
and it doesn't take much just like you
say to speak to a bunch of your your
customers or your prospects if you can
get them on a call it might take a bit
of an investment you might have to offer
them something free of charge
um or if you can't involve to do that
you could even listen to Industry
relevant podcasts and things like that
there's a lot of material out there so
much material out there it's just like
you say you've got to put in the work
yeah that's where I often find some of
the best marketers for sales people
first
because it's hard to really replicate
that experience in terms of actually
being on the phone and understanding the
market I mean you know we look at some
of the best marketers who have ever been
around like David Ogilvy like this guy
was spending 80 of his time researching
so it's so important to do and I don't
know what your thoughts on that because
I know there's always this you know
friction between marketing and sales
departments and organizations but I feel
like having that sales experience first
and then transition into marketing gives
you a massive competitive Advantage oh
yeah most most Mark I mean I I'm
basically a marketer but I do a lot of
selling for for our company most
marketers I'd say are scared to get on
the phone yeah I'd love love for anyone
to have a debate with me over that but
that's for a difference
um but yeah a lot of a lot of marketers
now are listening into sales schools
which is fair enough with tools like
gong and chorus and similar kind of
things but yeah getting that kind of
live feedback loop so you understand
what basically your ideal clients your
prospects care about like you say so you
can leverage those problems and how you
fix them but um we digress so
understanding your ICP how are we now
going to leverage this Intel that we
have learned yeah by the way some women
might have missed out for any listeners
when you're actually sending out your
emails you don't want to send any more
than 30 a day and you need to when you
do your list building with the ICP you
really need to spend time and never buy
lists of other people so because
remember this if you're buying a list
off someone else that means that that's
been sold to loads of other people so
build the list yourself do the research
and then what you can do strategically
is sop the process create a standard
operating procedure of you recording
Loom videos when you go through finding
where these leads are make sure you fill
out because when we get to the
multi-platform follow-up step which is
step five of this process you're gonna
need LinkedIn and face and all the rest
of it but it really pays to do your due
diligence properly before you send out
the emails the last thing I'll say is
use never bounce that's the tool that
we've used and basically just run the
emails through never bounce because
again if you get bounces on your email
it's going to massively damage the
domain reputation so you want to make
sure just like cut out the bounces put
them through never bounce that'll do it
for you you know it's really affordable
and but yeah make sure you build the
list yourself again once you've done the
ICP research that's really important so
you're actually going after the right
decision mate because otherwise you'll
just be wasting your time and that's
probably worse than doing nothing
sometimes now with the psychology step
essentially if anyone's read the book
from Robert
cialdini on persuasion or you know the
the basically he's got a book about
persuasion and it's got six principles
around it and I'm sure you're already
familiar with this song Right is one of
the best books out there
I don't I think I've heard is this
fairly recent book how recent is that no
no this is really old it's like it's
really old
I definitely haven't read it yeah no but
then they've got an up-to-date version
I've got I've literally got the book in
my bag there's because they he's
basically
um got the principles and then update
re-updated them it's called persuasion
this one here okay
I'd highly recommend anyone checking
this out because this is fantastic for
sales but also just the principles for
marketing is incredibly important and
instead of me like boring you with all
of it the point is is user principles in
here but some of the main ones he talks
about is you know social proof and
reciprocity these kind of things are
really important for just from a
principal standpoint to make sure you
include and that's what I'm talking
about when I'm talking about the
psychology so for example if I'm now
reaching out to an e-commerce brand and
I have a case study of a similar
e-commerce brand again we talk about the
language if you can Niche down more and
more then obviously that's going to put
me in a much better State you know as
humans we're always like scared of trust
so we're always looking for those trust
factors whether it be a Forbes badge on
your website profile or whatever else if
we can talk about let's say because I
know we did again this campaign we're
talking about with 80 open rates it was
actually for a CBD companies that we
reached out to and we'd actually been
working and got great results one of the
top CBD companies in the market and I
knew that everyone were reaching out to
knew who it was so that was actually one
of the keys behind it and that's
obviously one of the keys to what Robert
talks about but the point is is you can
get that social proof of someone
relative in the industry then it's gonna
put you in you know it's just going to
be so important and compound for you of
course maybe you're just starting out
you don't have that and but you know
that's something to bear in mind the
other thing though if you don't have the
social proof is you can go more down the
reciprocity route so providing some sort
of value even though you're reaching out
cold and usually you'll get something
back for example let's just say you did
some research for example in the ad
space as you well know on Tick Tock it's
all about
um you know the hooks at the start of
the ad so just like the the first two to
three seconds in terms of like that
first thing they say that's the thing
that moves the needle on Tick Tock
content more than anything else for
anyone who didn't know what you could do
is you could do some research and you
could find I don't know the top 10 hooks
for tick tock you could then reach out
to these Brands and say hey checked out
your website bloody bloody blah
obviously it'd have to be more concise
and research or need to be done but you
can say I actually just put this quick
ebook together the top 10 hooks and for
going viral on Tick Tock considering
it's Black Friday Cyber Monday I thought
this might be incredibly valuable for
you and if you want to go a step further
you can you even record a personalized
loom video and you can just send that
across with literally no CTA whatsoever
and you'll be very surprised at that
stage because again if you look in your
email inbox no one's doing that
everyone's just pitching someone on
LinkedIn the other day said Pitch
slapping which I thought was quite funny
yeah yeah I thought but yeah I think if
you go down the reciprocity route if you
don't have results there to back up what
you've already done that could be an
incredibly valuable way you know there's
lots of ways to to skin a cat here but
the point is you need to think about the
psychology and the last thing I'll say
is don't just look at it on desktop when
you're going to send the email also look
at it on mobile because again if you
look on mobile a lot of the emails you
get by the way that's where most people
are going to consume it they look trash
because people are just sending them out
on desktops through softwares and
they're just big walls of text you need
to split out your emails or use the
white space for Advantage and make sure
presentation is literally half the
battle so check all your emails on
mobile and just pretend you are the
recipient and just open the email as if
you received it like would you actually
like that email is crazy and sounds so
simple but often a lot of the time if
you read back through your own emails
you'll quite quickly realize I wouldn't
even read that myself I'll probably
delete it so that's another thing on the
psychological standpoint make it easy
for people give them something they care
about which is personalized and then
kind of throwing it into point four have
a little bit of fun again if you can
make someone laugh you'll instantly
stand out so whether that be a funny
image something relatable to the
industry just make someone laugh you
know because at the end of the day
they'll you'll be top of mind if you can
do that so I know just went through a
lot of things there's a lot to break
down there so let's let's crack on and
and tear this down a bit so
yeah we before we're talking about icpi
to client profiles we we did that quite
nicely in terms of kind of understanding
who they are who your ideal client is
their problems
what what they actually care about and
then we you shared quite some
interesting stuff so you you mentioned
building the list yourself
um and I'm sure a lot of people have
heard that and thought holy that
sounds like a lot of work
um when I know there's tools like
seamless cognizant lead IQ tons of
others that provide data
everything and anything
um in the B2B sector anyway yeah so why
can't we just get a list from them
yeah because the thing is is you don't
know who to you don't know who to Target
that's the point so it depends again
it's like depends how much research
you've got on your Market if you already
know your ICP and you because let me
just devil's advocate for a second let's
just say you're approaching you know a
local business about their marketing and
you're reaching out to someone in the
operations side of the business they
might never get involved in that part of
the business and they might not be that
well connected with the owner or the the
marketing person who you actually need
to speak to so now what you're doing is
you're pulling out data and you're
spending your time outreaching to people
who don't really know about what you're
saying so you're going to get terrible
response rates and even if they did
respond they don't have the authority or
the decision-making power to actually
move a deal forward so the point is is I
think at the to start doing it manually
is not a bad thing because you're
digging then you're going into the
trenches and you're understanding more
about your Market how these companies
are put together whereas if you just
scrape a list off a piece of software
you miss out of all that thing you know
I've been through thousands and
thousands of director consumer size
e-commerce websites and through that
process I realized what website's words
what didn't I understood how all these
businesses were put together and it's
just because I've gotten the trenches
and I did the work and yeah I wouldn't
skip that process now I'd be smart I'd
sop that process and get someone else to
do it and then potentially start using a
software so you don't want to do that
forever but I don't think you should
skip that especially if your starting
answer
yeah it's a tricky one really so I'm
just thinking like if I was I mean a lot
of our listeners were in the B2B space
right so if I was a service based
business or a SAS software company
whatever
um how would I go about like trying to
Target all these kind of clients that I
want to grab their emails from is there
like a easier way especially if you
wanna
bearing in mind the response rates are
going to be quite low
um with any cold Outreach like how would
I go about actually finding their
details to then set up these campaigns
yeah I mean again it really that
obviously depends on the products and
service you're selling because of course
if it's a sub but you know you've got to
be smart about the way you use time but
then again you might be doing some sort
of free trials so again that's hard to
say without more information but for
example you could just do if you have
sales nav you could just do sales Now
search and you could pull in a big list
from there that might be a good place to
start I think you taught us about seeing
this AI like the contracts for those
guys I think are 12 months and they're
pretty expensive so actually a cheaper a
cheaper tool to use will be Apollo
that's pretty good that pulls in emails
that are pretty validated and it has a
pretty big database so yeah Apollo is
pretty good for this building again I
just make sure you just double check
everything because usually we've seen
what we've kind of scrubbed lists
there's mistakes in there about the
targeting and for example let's just say
you pull in a list of local businesses
and they're all targeted and it's I
don't know they're all dental industry
like companies a lot of the time you'll
click through and it's actually like a
beauty a beauty company so you want to
be careful on that side of things I
understand if you sash you've got to be
smart of your time because you have much
lower ticket but yeah all right let's
try and give practice some practical
advice now
um I'll put you on the spot if you don't
mind Nigel everyone we'll go basically
put into play everything we've learned
so far
um and I also would be interested to
know kind of it sounds like these emails
are going to be sequenced in the sense
that there'll be a few of them because
the first one was like a giveaway so
let's say that we provide some kind of
high ticket software
um for let's say agricultural Industries
um I just came into my head because I
think I talked about a while ago and
let's say the main pain points we fix
are at the moment their sales team are
taking hours and hours a week to upload
all the details into the CRM
um maybe another pain point we fix is
that it integrates nicely with I don't
know different email providers and stuff
like that so it links up to anything
else externally third-party software and
maybe another pain point is most systems
right now are super slow whereas this
loads fast and it's nice and quick
um so let's let's say it's like one of
the quickest in market in terms of
processes and whatnot
so that's a rough idea
um how would we go about utilizing this
Intel and then setting up an email
campaign with basically all the good
stuff that you've shared with us so far
what should we be considering like our
first email mobile friendliness hook
um just a rough idea to kind of give our
audience kind of how they can put it
into play sure how big are these
companies let's say
in terms of the company itself yeah in
terms of maybe how many team members
there are
let's say we're targeting companies with
I don't know 50 to 100 staff something
like that maybe yeah you're going to be
quite far away from the decision makers
at that point
so that that would be the first thing
I'd be trying to do because look at the
end of the day to make a decision
regardless if you go cold or you go
inbound you need to find the route to
the decision maker so that'll be the
first place that I'd start because
obviously you know like that's gonna
that's gonna be the thing that moves the
needle the most and then if you don't do
that research you could just be wasting
time because you kind of already touched
on so again I don't know if you're going
to give yeah I guess I guess let's let's
say to set the scenario make it a bit
simpler maybe they've got a small
marketing team maybe they've got three
or four people in their internal
marketing team and maybe you target them
Chief marketing officer or head of
marketing something like that yeah sure
I mean again it doesn't sound like it's
a massive Market either but I probably
still look at LinkedIn first to do a bit
of customer research so I'd be looking
to profile between anywhere between 100
and 300 like to give people an idea
let's pretend that you've already warned
up your email you've done everything in
using it like lend list and then one so
you've got things ready to send out I'd
do a batch of like 100 to 300 people and
that like that's enough data really to
see if something works or not and then
in terms of like the the first email you
want me to kind of go through the
sequence right
yeah I mean we've we've talked about
kind of processes
um but just to get a rough idea because
I think what's not talked about on
podcasts enough especially on email is
it's hard to imagine isn't it especially
if someone's listening in like this is
all these are all some useful nuggets
but what does that email actually look
like like is it hello hope you're well
we fix these pain points or is it like
hey there then straight into the points
or what how do we kind of because I know
you mentioned um using a bit of a hook
maybe the first email is a free giveaway
um just like how do we frame up the
first few emails I think the the pro
you're actually touching on one of the
problems of cold right which is most
people look for the template uh okay to
get 80 open rates you don't do templates
you have to build things from scratch
and it takes research so it's obviously
maybe that's a get out of jail card form
it's hard for me on the spot about doing
it yeah yeah research to be able to come
up with something which is going to get
that audience's attention because every
like I said everyone wants you know the
top two tricks you know the hacks for
cold email like here's here's the real
truth there isn't any
like and that's the thing and that's
because everyone else is trying to do
the template if you've got a template
online from like the third search in
Google think how many of the thousands
of people are only using that so yeah
you need to have some sort of hook what
I will say is in terms of the call to
action in the first email that you
talked about gong before one of the
things you should do is use an
interest-based call to action because
they did research on like 300 000 called
emails and saw that if you ask for
someone's time someone who's really busy
for example the marketing teams these
agricultural companies you know they
already getting pitched all the time
they're probably you've got a really
busy schedule so instead of that ask
them would this be of help to you and
then insert something around that's like
in this season for example and then just
ask them or are you interested to learn
more
etc etc and if you obviously have some
sort of free like ebook or whatever it
is like cheat sheet feet then you can
include that but always use an
interest-based call to action for the
first cold email and be respectful of
people's time and the other thing God
say is make sure you include and
unsubscribe in that first email because
about yourself but how many times you
get that first email and then three days
you see the follow-ups and then you see
the follow-ups it's like honestly I
couldn't give a about the first
email I don't want to see all the
follow-ups give me a chance to get out
of this thing yeah expect you more for
that yeah yeah and then it takes like 10
clicks to unsubscribe and then you're
still not unsubscribe
I can I can give you some more because I
say like for the follow-ups I can give
you like some ideas on that so yeah
it'll be useful to know really just yeah
for sure I guess guess some context like
that's the the first email that makes
sense maybe leverage a problem give away
some kind of free useful resort with a
light touch yeah
yeah with the follow-ups honestly a lot
of people over complicate this now in
terms of like every again everyone wants
like the best time of the day to do it
and you know what is the actual like
Cadence and everything else honestly
like it's not as important as you think
if you just do the follow-ups then
that's the most important thing of
course you want to be respectful on the
frequency but I'd say the the first
follow-up should be probably about three
days after the first email the second
follow-up may be four days and then the
fourth follow-up I would say give it a
week then you don't really want to do
any more than six six because Outreach
because then you'll be spamming people
ideally the other two if you can if
you've done your research properly you
could hit them up on LinkedIn because
now you're going to get multi-platform
so that's going to be better for you
make you stand out more but in terms of
what you're saying the follow-ups the
first one I often use and it's crazy how
like good this has been for responses is
literally just put thoughts question
mark
that's it painfully short yeah and it
here's a cheeky trick actually for
anyone out there listening what you can
do is you can put thoughts question mark
and then below it put sent from my
iPhone now the reason why that because
obviously anyone uses Apple knows that
they put it puts a message on there sent
from my iPhone that now looks and if you
use the technology in a piece of
software and maybe it's the ones reading
my emails I'll now know but the point is
is this now makes it look way more
natural and obviously like you've
actually done it does doesn't it it's
got that psychological thing he thinks
like oh this person's on the go and
they've just thought of me what are your
thoughts yeah exactly that's it yeah
I've not thought that one that's
something I could do or another one I've
heard which is really cheeky is you
purposely make some sort of mistake in
the first email and then 10 minutes
afterwards say like obviously recover
the typo or just say I miss this piece
of information now that's another good
one to make it seem more natural all and
then in terms of the other follow-ups
what you can do is you can then hit them
from a different pain point or you can
provide some sort of resource for them
again it has to be specific but when
you're following up with people the one
thing I'll say is try and make them
laugh because if you keep making them
laugh that'll really stand out and again
this is really going to depend on your
sort of you know personality
and then like use gifts like they're
great for follow-ups and then the other
one is is just try and have some
variation because everyone again is yeah
sure you want to do the simple follow-up
but after that then everyone's
follow-ups if you look in the thing go
oh do you want to jump on a call or bump
in this up the inbox it's like they're
getting tons of those anyway so try and
stick out and the last the last thing
I'll say in that is when you're looking
at your email and we already talked
about psychology actually look at the
first few lines of the email as well as
the subject line because if you look at
that that's what they're previewing so
when you're doing your follow-ups again
you want to say some sort of hook let's
just say in the follow-up you actually
had something that was a value to them
you could say something on the lines of
this one thing has changed the game for
insert company in your industry like now
I want to open that email up because
that sounds like it'll be something
that's pretty damn valuable yeah yeah
that's one thing we've not discussed
actually the um email title the email
subject line
yeah again I appreciate it's got to be
customized yeah quick questions probably
the best one honestly
literally either your name and Sam quick
question again I still fall for that one
a lot when people do it to me and it has
been a say overused but honestly it's
still really good if you've got the time
if you want to personalize the subject
lines you'll get an even higher response
rate but that obviously takes quite a
lot of time and resource
got it that's helpful no appreciate the
breakdown Nigel so you you reckon about
six or so emails Max and in the Outreach
kind of campaign I wouldn't wreck like
again if it's on completely unsolicited
if you've done it from content or you've
got some sort of you've been in their
face already and they know about you
then maybe more but I'd say no more than
six sure and
what is the end game here because I'm
sure some people will be curious at some
stage
um well I guess there's this there's a
couple parts to this question when do
people tend to
respond what part is it like the second
email where it's thoughts or is it
somewhere else well thirdly like or
secondly rather what do we do if we
don't get a response to this campaign
yeah sure good question so
most people like in terms of the the way
they stack up in the responses you'll
always see the most responses with the
first email that's just how it is but
you'll often get you know a good
percentage in the follow-ups so it's
hard to say exactly how much for each
but I'd say probably 70 are going to
come from the first email but that 30 in
the follow-ups again what the follow-ups
on obviously all the same like you could
get your biggest ever client from the
fifth of the fifth follow-up I've had
that on Plenty of occasions so it's like
it's always about you know that one door
that opens and always think of that so
it's definitely worth doing especially
if you use you know technology to help
you out what was the other questions are
good question I think I said I uh I yeah
the first part was when the people
typically respond the second part was if
they don't if you don't get a response
to the campaign what are some
recommended next steps
yeah so it depends if you've done the
multi-touch point so you like obviously
send them a message on LinkedIn whether
that's an inmail again it depends how
much these clients are potentially Worth
to your business if they're a very high
ticket what it's best to do is start
engaging with them on LinkedIn or
whatever platform you use let's say it's
Instagram again if you can show up for
30 days consecutively on their posts if
they do post this is because obviously
some people don't and that's an
incredible way to get in front of them
and apart from that what I would do is
probably segment the list and then
potentially you could reach out to them
again in maybe six six or so months time
you don't want to be spamming people
constantly but maybe wait until you've
actually got something else to say to
them but again considering if you've
actually spent the time to really get
that lead list together you can use that
again so if you've not got arrested
response put it to like put it to one
side in your CRM or sheets whatever
you're using yeah make a note of that
sales data for the future
nice one last point and then we'll wrap
things up if we see the let's say we've
put together this email campaign based
on kind of these pain points that we've
discovered and we've offered some kind
of free resource and then we're
following up on it
um if we find that that campaign
absolutely bombs it just feels like it
doesn't resonate maybe open rates are
low and response rates are low
um is there anything you typically find
tends to work like or do we just go
right back to the drawing board and
start from
start from scratch
yeah so it honestly it's a tough one
that because especially at the start
you'll find out that you'll go back to
the drawing board you might do five
campaigns and they all bomb
so it is tough at the start it really is
um but what works is yeah doing more
research on the market like honestly if
your campaign is a bombing for whatever
reason you're not resonating with your
ideal customer so I would try and if you
can maybe go to an event a local event
and try and get people face to face that
might be your best way and if you can
ask someone who's in your industry to
read your email and even if you can't do
that ask some friends or some people who
actually have experience in marketing or
sales and get them to give you some
feedback by the way there's loads of
like groups and marketing and sales so
people will be willing to give you
feedback like for example lend this who
just talked about that they've got a
Facebook book group like 15 000 people
in there go in there make a Facebook
post hey this is the campaign results
just wondering what I'm doing wrong you
know go out there ask questions and
start using resources your advantage and
by the way if you do do that make sure
you actually help other people out as
well because that's important because
what goes around comes around but they
would be the steps that I take but also
set the expectation it's going to take
some time but like we've already said we
go back to the start of what we talked
about in this podcast it's well worth
the investment because you're going to
get that cash flow you're going to get
the experience and again just like
everything else cold outbound is for
people who persevere most people just
give up just like with podcasts most
people give up I think statistically you
have to rate episodes with cold email
you know someone says to you I've
already sent a thousand emails like it's
not working okay no worries send ten
thousand you know the the solution is
often do more
nice way to sum it up awesome look Nigel
this has been a very comprehensive
episode so really appreciate you sharing
your wisdom with myself and the audience
so thanks very much been very enjoyable
and very thorough so with that sir
please do tell us more about how one
tuning in can learn from you connect
with you and anything you'd like to
promote yeah sure so alferinbound.com is
the name of our agency we work with
director consumer Brands who usually are
in the region of five to 30 million in
Revenue at the time recording and we
help them drive more customers drive
more revenue on Tick Tock and Facebook
through their paid ads platform and the
reason why we're different is we have a
massive focus on content and user
generated content ugc as it's known in
the industry and so yeah restart a
company in our first year of growth
we've uh we've been enjoying ourselves
so far we've got a long way to go but if
anyone wants to reach out they're
interested to work with us alfer
inbound.com all the information's there
and the last thing I'll say is I post
every single day on LinkedIn at this
time recording it's 8 30 a.m every
weekday eastern time and I reveal the
truth around paid social but even if you
not on the direct to Consumer space and
marketing space reach out to me on
LinkedIn let's have a conversation I
love talking to other entrepreneurs who
are passionate about their mission and
they're out there in the world and
making it a better place so thanks so
much for having me on the podcast today
Sam it's been an absolute pleasure I
know we went all over the place but
hopefully there's some golden nuggets
here or there and like I said I'd love
to connect with anyone LinkedIn now I
need to shut up no worries Nigel we'll
put all of those links over in the show
notes at business growth dot marketing
and with that thanks once again mate
really appreciate a very enjoyable
episode no worries take care you're
doing great thanks cheers dude and as
always if you enjoyed today's episode a
quick rating or review on your audio
podcast Channel or subscribe on the
YouTube goes a very long way and with
that we should catch you on the next one
for more actionable no BS B2B marketing
tips to grow your business and group
Revenue cheers for tuning in